---
title: "Eli Slenders"
authorname: "Eli Slenders"
collection: team
header:
  teaser: EliSlenders.jpg
tags: post-doc
tagline: Fondazione San Paolo PostDoc Fellow
subject: "Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy"
date: 2019-01-01
email: 'eli.slenders@iit.it'
twitter: EliSlenders
# collaborators: "Christophe Leterrier, Bassam Hajj, Mark Marsh, Loïc Royer, Joe Grove"
---

<h2>ShortBio</h2>
Eli Slenders has a bachelor's and master's degree in physics from Hasselt University (Hasselt, Belgium) and KU Leuven (Leuven, Belgium), respectively. He graduated in 2013. From 2014 to 2018, he worked as a PhD student at Hasselt University in the Biophysics group of prof. M. Ameloot. His PhD thesis was entitled “Resolution in coherent and incoherent optical imaging with two-photon excitation microscopy”. Since 2019, Eli is a post-doctoral researcher under the supervision of Giuseppe Vicidomini in the Molecular Microscopy and Spectroscopy research line at the Italian Institute of Technology (IIT, Genoa, Italy). His research interests include the theoretical design and experimental validation of optical microscopy tools such as multiphoton image scanning microscopy and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. 


<h2>Projects Description</h2>

**SPAD-FCS**: Over the last decades, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) has been successfully applied to many biological systems to study molecular transports, dynamic behavior of macromolecules, membrane structures, and organization of chromatin. By measuring and analyzing the fluorescence intensity fluctuations generated by biomolecules moving in-and-out of the microscope detection volume(s), parameters such as diffusion coefficients, molecular concentrations, and the fluorescence brightness can be calculated. The (sub)microsecond temporal resolution and the low background typically needed for FCS are usually obtained by employing a point-detector - such as a photomultiplier tube or an avalanche photodiode - in a confocal microscope system. The detector integrates all photons in the detection volume, thus ignoring all information encoded in the spatial distribution of the photons. Consequently, FCS has a limited value when studying more complex situations, e.g. FCS is not able to measure the direction of active transport in a sample undergoing anomalous diffusion. Adaptations of FCS that do register spatial information with a camera, such as spatiotemporal image scanning correlation spectroscopy, exist, but at the cost of a very poor temporal resolution.

The trade-off between recording spatial and temporal information can be removed by using an asynchronous-readout single photon avalanche diode (SPAD) array detector placed at the image plane of a laser scanning microscope. Each pixel of the detector can register the arrival time of a photon with sub-nanosecond temporal resolution. In combination with a pulsed laser source and a time-correlated photon registration platform, such a setup offers the additional advantage of being able to simultaneously measure the fluorescence lifetime.

In this project, we aim to build a platform for recording and analyzing FCS data with a novel 5x5 SPAD array detector installed in a custom-built confocal microscope. We are exploring how the diffusion parameters can be retreived from analysing the autocorrelation and cross-correlation functions of the 25 intensity traces. In addition, we are investigating the system's capability of simulatneously measuring the fluorescence lifetime during an FCS experiment by time-tagging each fluorescence photon. Such a platform would open up a new way of accurately quantifying fast local dynamics and studying the structural organization of complex biological samples.


<!---{% include author-research-themes.html %}--->
<!---{% include team-member-collaborators.html %}--->
<!---{% include publication-list.html %} --->
