---
title: "Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy"
type: FCS
collection: research
date: 2021-01-01
author_profile: false
sidebar:
  nav: "Tech"
header:
  teaser: fcs/fcs_sketch.png
layout: archive
---

<div style="text-align: right">

<p><a href="../FCS">&lt; Back to overview</a></p>

</div>

<div style="text-align: justify">

<p>Over the last decades, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) has been successfully applied to many biological systems to study molecular transports, dynamic behavior of macromolecules, membrane structures, and organization of chromatin. By measuring and analyzing the fluorescence intensity fluctuations generated by biomolecules moving in-and-out of the microscope detection volume(s), parameters such as diffusion coefficients, molecular concentrations, and the fluorescence brightness can be calculated. The (sub)microsecond temporal resolution and the low background typically needed for FCS are usually obtained by employing a point-detector - such as a photomultiplier tube or an avalanche photodiode - in a confocal microscope system. The detector integrates all photons in the detection volume, thus ignoring all information encoded in the spatial distribution of the photons. Consequently, FCS has a limited value when studying more complex situations, e.g. FCS is not able to measure the direction of active transport in a sample undergoing anomalous diffusion. Other fluorescence fluctuation spectroscopy techniques that do register spatial information with a camera, such as spatiotemporal image scanning correlation spectroscopy, exist, but the spatial information comes at the cost of a very poor temporal resolution.</p>

<p>To address this limitation, we recently built a confocal laser scanning microscope in which the traditional single-element detector was replaced with a 5x5 pixel single-photon-avalanche-diode (SPAD) array detector, see Figure 1. Each pixel of the detector produces almost instantaneously a logical-high voltage when hit by a fluorescence photon. Consequently, for each pixel, the arrival time of every photon can be registered with sub-nanosecond temporal resolution, independently from and asynchronously with respect to the other pixels. In combination with a pulsed laser source, such a setup offers the additional advantage of being able to simultaneously measure the fluorescence lifetime.</p>


